docs: managing projects (#2696)
akuity/kargo: docs/docs/30-how-to-guides/11-working-with-projects.md

---
description: Learn how to work effectively with Projects
sidebar_label: Working with Projects
---

# Working with Projects

Each Kargo project is represented by a cluster-scoped Kubernetes resource of
type `Project`. Reconciliation of such a resource effects all boilerplate
project initialization, including the creation of a specially-labeled
`Namespace` with the same name as the `Project`. All resources belonging to a
given `Project` should be grouped together in that `Namespace`.

A minimal `Project` resource looks like the following:

```yaml

> apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
> kind: Project
> metadata:
> name: kargo-demo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: kargo-demo
```

* Boilerplate configuration is automatically created at the time of `Project`
creation. This includes things such as project-level RBAC resources and
`ServiceAccount` resources.
:::

## Promotion Policies

A `Project` resource can additionally define project-level configuration. At
present, this only includes **promotion policies** that describe which `Stage`s
are eligible for automatic promotion of newly available `Freight`.

:::note
Promotion policies are defined at the project-level because users with
permission to update `Stage` resources in a given project `Namespace` may _not_
have permission to create `Promotion` resources. Defining promotion policies at
the project-level therefore restricts such users from enabling automatic
promotions for a `Stage` to which they may lack permission to promote to
manually. It leaves decisions about eligibility for auto-promotion squarely in
the hands of someone like a "project admin."
:::

In the example below, the `test` and `uat` `Stage`s are eligible for automatic
promotion of newly available `Freight`, but any other `Stage`s in the `Project`
are not:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:

> name: kargo-demo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: example
```

> apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
> kind: Project
> metadata:
> name: kargo-demo
> spec:
> promotionPolicies:
> - stage: test
> autoPromotionEnabled: true
> - stage: uat
> autoPromotionEnabled: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
name: kargo-demo
spec:
  promotionPolicies:
  - stage: test
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
  - stage: uat
    autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

```

## Namespace Adoption

At times, `Namespace`s may require specific configuration to
comply with regulatory or organizational requirements. To
account for this, Kargo supports the adoption of pre-existing
`Namespace`s that are labeled with `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"`.
This enables pre-configuring such `Namespace`s according to your
own requirements.

:::info
Requiring a `Namespace` to have the `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"` label to be eligible for adoption by a new `Project` is intended to prevent accidental or willful hijacking of an existing `Namespace`.
:::

The following example demonstrates adoption of a `Namespace` that's been
pre-configured with with a label unrelated to Kargo:

```yaml

> apiVersion: v1
> kind: Namespace
> metadata:
>     name: example
> labels:
>     kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"
>     example.com/org: platform-eng
> ---
> apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
> kind: Project
> metadata:
>     name: example
> spec:
>     # Project specifications go here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: example
labels:
  kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"
  example.com/org: platform-eng
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  # ...
```

:::note
Promotion policies are defined at the project-level because users with
permission to update `Stage` resources in a given project `Namespace` may _not_
have permission to create `Promotion` resources. Defining promotion policies at
the project-level therefore restricts such users from enabling automatic
promotions for a `Stage` to which they may lack permission to promote to
manually. It leaves decisions about eligibility for auto-promotion squarely in
the hands of someone like a "project admin."
:::

In the example below, the `test` and `uat` `Stage`s are eligible for automatic
promotion of newly available `Freight`, but any other `Stage`s in the `Project`
are not:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
name: kargo-demo
spec:
promotionPolicies:
- stage: test
autoPromotionEnabled: true
- stage: uat
autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

## Namespace Adoption

At times, `Namespace`s may require specific configuration to
comply with regulatory or organizational requirements. To
account for this, Kargo supports the adoption of pre-existing
`Namespace`s that are labeled with `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"`.

> This enables you pre-configure such `Namespace`s according to your
> own requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enables pre-configuring such `Namespace`s according to your
own requirements.
```

:::info

> `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"` label serves as a safeguard,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"` label serves as a safeguard,
```

ensuring that only designated namespaces can be adopted as Kargo `Project`s,
thereby preventing the inadvertent integration of non-Project namespaces.
:::

> For example, if your policy agent mandates that all `Namespace`s include
> a label identifying the internal organization responsible for them, you
> can define such a `Namespace` directly as in the following example:

Reviewer: Since this is positioned _after_ the info box, I think it becomes awkward to introduce this with "for example," because the info box has interrupted the flow and the reader may have lost context. "For example of what??"

I think some slight rewording can fix it:

```suggestion
The following example demonstrates adoption of a `Namespace` that's been
pre-configured with with a label unrelated to Kargo:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:

>     name: kargo-example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: example
```

labels:
    kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"

>     org.example.com: responsible-org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    example.com/org: platform-eng
```

---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:

>     name: kargo-example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    name: example
```

A minimal `Project` resource looks like the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
name: kargo-demo
```

:::note
Deletion of a `Project` resource results in the deletion of the corresponding
`Namespace`. For convenience, the inverse is also true -- deletion of a
project's `Namespace` results in the deletion of the corresponding `Project`
resource.
:::

:::info
There are compelling advantages to using `Project` resources instead of
permitting users to create `Namespace` resources directly:

* The required label indicating a `Namespace` is a Kargo project cannot be
forgotten or misapplied.

* Users can be granted permission to indirectly create `Namespace` resources for
Kargo projects _only_ without being granted more general permissions to create
_any_ new `Namespace` directly.

* Boilerplate configuration is automatically created at the time of `Project`
creation. This includes things such as project-level RBAC resources and
`ServiceAccount` resources.
:::

:::info
In future releases, the team also expects to also aggregate project-level status
and statistics in `Project` resources.

> :::

Reviewer: This was out intention at one point, but everything that's been done to date for collecting metrics actually isn't tied (not directly at least) into the `Project` type. It doesn't mean we _won't_ head in this direction, but being less certain, let's kill off this info box.

> ### Promotion Policies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Promotion Policies
```

A `Project` resource can additionally define project-level configuration. At
present, this only includes **promotion policies** that describe which `Stage`s
are eligible for automatic promotion of newly available `Freight`.

:::note
Promotion policies are defined at the project-level because users with
permission to update `Stage` resources in a given project `Namespace` may _not_
have permission to create `Promotion` resources. Defining promotion policies at
the project-level therefore restricts such users from enabling automatic
promotions for a `Stage` to which they may lack permission to promote to
manually. It leaves decisions about eligibility for auto-promotion squarely in
the hands of someone like a "project admin."
:::

In the example below, the `test` and `uat` `Stage`s are eligible for automatic
promotion of newly available `Freight`, but any other `Stage`s in the `Project`
are not:

```yaml
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
name: kargo-demo
spec:
promotionPolicies:
- stage: test
autoPromotionEnabled: true
- stage: uat
autoPromotionEnabled: true
```

## Namespace Adoption

> To ensure compliance with governance policies, you may need
> to pre-configure namespaces with specific labels or annotations
> required by your organization's policy agents.
> 
> Kargo supports the adoption of pre-existing namespaces that are
> labeled with `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"`. This enables you
> to pre-configure namespaces according to your organization's requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At times, `Namespace`s may require specific configuration to
comply with regulatory or organizational requirements. To
account for this, Kargo supports the adoption of pre-existing
`Namespace`s that are labeled with `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"`.
This enables you pre-configure such `Namespace`s according to your
own requirements.
```

> For example, if your policy agent mandates that all namespaces include
> a label identifying the internal organization responsible for them,
> you can define the `namespace` in your YAML manifest with
> the necessary labels and resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if your policy agent mandates that all `Namespace`s include
a label identifying the internal organization responsible for them, you
can define the that `Namespace` in your manifest with the necessary label:
```

> For example, if your policy agent mandates that all namespaces include
> a label identifying the internal organization responsible for them,
> you can define the `namespace` in your YAML manifest with
> the necessary labels and resources:
> 
> * Add the label `kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"` to your `namespace` definition.
> * Ensure that in your YAML file, the `namespace` definition is listed above the
> Kargo `Project` resource to allow it to be created first.
> 
> In this example, the `namespace` is pre-labeled to indicate the responsible
> internal organization. When the Kargo `Project` is created, it automatically
> adopts this pre-existing `namespace`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if your policy agent mandates that all `Namespace`s include
a label identifying the internal organization responsible for them, you
can define such a `Namespace` directly as in the following example:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
    name: kargo-example
labels:
    kargo.akuity.io/project: "true"
    org.example.com: responsible-org
---
apiVersion: kargo.akuity.io/v1alpha1
kind: Project
metadata:
    name: kargo-example
spec:

> # Project specifications go here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Project specifications go here
```

Reviewer: You might want to double-check how many spaces are used per level of indentation in YAML examples throughout the rest of the docs. This looks like more than we've used in other places, but it may be my imagination.
